Programming security and why rust (#1111)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-03-15-programming-security-and-why-rust.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Why Safe Programming Matters and Why a Language Like Rust Matters"
author: deepu-sasidharan
by: advocate
communities: [security, rust]
description: "Why safe programming matters and why I would choose Rust for that. We will also talk about Fast and safe programming with Rust."
tags: [security, rust]
tweets:
  - "Why does safe programming matter? Learn what safe programming is and why Rust is a great choice. #rustlang #rust #programming #security"
  - "Are you still writing C/C++ code? You will be amazed at the amount issues arising from unsafe code. #rustlang #rust #programming #security"
image: blog/programming-security-and-why-rust/cover.jpg
type: awareness
---

> As programmers, how many of you have a good understanding of programming safety or secure programming? It's not the same application security or cyber security. I have to confess; I didn't know a lot about these in the early years of my career, especially since I didn't come from a computer science background. But looking back, I think programming security is something every programmer should be aware of and should be taught at a junior level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As programmers, how many of you have a good understanding of programming safety or secure programming? It's not the same as application security or cyber security. I have to confess; I didn't know a lot about these in the early years of my career, especially since I didn't come from a computer science background. But looking back, I think programming security is something every programmer should be aware of and should be taught at a junior level.
```

Author: how are these not caught by Grammarly :facepalm:

> What is safe programming, or to be more precise, what does being safe mean for a programming language? or rather what does unsafe mean? Let's set the context first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What is safe programming, or to be more precise, what does being safe mean for a programming language? Or rather, what does unsafe mean? Let's set the context first.
```

{% include toc.md %}

> # Programming safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Programming safety
```
H1 is for the title only, all section headings and sub-headings should be H2 and H3

> > Programming Safety = Memory safety + Type safety + Thread safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Programming safety = Memory safety + Type safety + Thread safety
```
sentence case

> Safety can be categorized into three, memory safety, type safety, and thread safety (or four if you count null safety as a separate item)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we talk about "safety" in programming, we mean some combination of three distinct things: memory safety, type safety, and thread safety. There are four if you count null safety as distinct from memory safety, but we'll group those two together today.
```

## Memory safety

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've ever had a program run out of memory due to a memory leak or accidentally read from an index of an array that was greater than the array's length, you've suffered from lack of memory safety.
```

Author: this is a bit too generic IMO since most memory-safe languages including Rust can have memory leaks and its not unsafe perse. Same for array out of bounds. These become memory safety issue only in C/C++ AFAIK

> ## Memory safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Memory safety
```

In a memory-safe language, when you access a variable or an item in an array, you can be sure that you are indeed accessing what you meant to or are allowed to access. In other words, you will not be reading or writing into the memory of another variable or pointer by mistake, regardless of what you do in your program.

> So, why is this a big deal? Doesn't all major programming languages ensure this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, why is this a big deal? Don't all major programming languages ensure this?
```

> Yes, to varying extents. But some languages are unsafe by default—for example, C and C++. In C or C++, you can access the memory of another variable by mistake, or you can free a pointer twice; that's called double-free error. Sometimes a program continues to use a pointer after it has been freed, and that's called free after use errors or a dangling pointer error. Such behavior is categorized as undefined behavior as they are unpredictable and causes security vulnerability rather than just crashing the program. In this scenario, a crashing program is a good thing as it won't cause a security vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, to varying extents. But some languages are unsafe by default—for example, C and C++. In C or C++, you can access the memory of another variable by mistake, or you can free a pointer twice; that's called double-free error. Sometimes a program continues to use a pointer after it has been freed, and that's called use after free errors or a dangling pointer error. Such behavior is categorized as undefined behavior as they are unpredictable and causes security vulnerability rather than just crashing the program. In this scenario, a crashing program is a good thing as it won't cause a security vulnerability.
```
:warning:

Author: ah, Grammarly rephrase suggestion :facepalm: I should read those well next time. In my defence, I was almost sleepy :rofl:

> Yes, to varying extents. But some languages are unsafe by default—for example, C and C++. In C or C++, you can access the memory of another variable by mistake, or you can free a pointer twice; that's called double-free error. Sometimes a program continues to use a pointer after it has been freed, and that's called use after free errors or a dangling pointer error. Such behavior is categorized as undefined behavior as they are unpredictable and causes security vulnerability rather than just crashing the program. In this scenario, a crashing program is a good thing as it won't cause a security vulnerability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, to varying extents. But some languages are unsafe by default—for example, C and C++. In C or C++, you can access the memory of another variable by mistake, or you can free a pointer twice; that's called double-free error. Sometimes a program continues to use a pointer after it has been freed, and that's called a use-after-free (UAF) error or a dangling pointer error. Such behaviors are categorized as undefined; they are unpredictable and cause security vulnerabilities rather than just crashing the program. In these scenarios, a crashing program is a good thing as it won't cause a security vulnerability.
```
grammar/alignment of tenses and single/plural

> I call it my billion-dollar mistake. It was the invention of the null reference in 1965
>
> - Tony Hoare

> Then there is also null safety which is kind of related to memory safety. I come from a Java/JavaScript background, and we are so used to the concept of null. Infamous for being the worst invention in programming. Garbage collected languages need a concept of nothing so that a pointer can be freed when unused. But it also leads to issues and pain, like the null pointer exceptions. Technically this falls under memory safety, but most memory-safe languages still let you use null as a value leading to null pointer errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then there is also null safety, which is related to memory safety. I come from a Java/JavaScript background, and we are so used to the concept of null. Infamous for being the worst invention in programming, garbage collected languages need a concept of nothing so that a pointer can be freed when unused. But it also leads to issues and pain, like the null pointer exceptions. Technically this falls under memory safety, but most memory-safe languages still let you use null as a value leading to null pointer errors.
```

> Then there is also null safety which is kind of related to memory safety. I come from a Java/JavaScript background, and we are so used to the concept of null. Null is infamous for being the worst invention in programming. Garbage collected languages need a concept of nothing so that a pointer can be freed when unused. But it also leads to issues and pain, like the null pointer exceptions. Technically this falls under memory safety, but most memory-safe languages still let you use null as a value leading to null pointer errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then there is also null safety which is kind of related to memory safety. I come from a Java/JavaScript background, and we are used to the concept of null. Null is infamous for being the worst invention in programming. Garbage collected languages need a concept of nothing so that a pointer can be freed when unused. But the concept also leads to issues and pain, like the null pointer exceptions. Technically this relates to memory safety, but most memory-safe languages still let you use null as a value leading to null pointer errors.
```
clarifying "it"  / context

> ## Type safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Type safety
```

> In a type-safe language, when you access a variable, you access it as the correct type of data it is stored as. This gives us the confidence to work on data without manually checking for the data type during runtime. Memory safety is required for a language to be type-safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've ever tried to add a string to an integer, you've probably encountered a type error.

In a type-safe language, when you access a variable, you access it as the correct type of data it is stored as. This gives us the confidence to work on data without manually checking for the data type during runtime. Memory safety is required for a language to be type-safe.
```

Reviewer: I find that motivating each explanation with a counterexample often makes it easier to understand, but you get to the examples later so it might be better to ignore these suggestions in this case.

> In a type-safe language, when you access a variable, you access it as the correct type of data it is stored as. This gives us the confidence to work on data without manually checking for the data type during runtime. Memory safety is required for a language to be type-safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a type-safe language, when you access a variable, you access it as the correct type of data according to how it is stored. This gives us the confidence to work on data without manually checking for the data type during runtime. Memory safety is required for a language to be type-safe.
```
syntax clarification

> ## Thread safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Thread safety
```

> In a thread-safe language, you can access or modify the same memory from multiple threads simultaneously without worrying about data races. This is generally achieved using message passing techniques, mutual exclusion locks (Mutex), and thread synchronization. Thread safety is required for optimal memory and type safety, so generally, memory and type-safe languages tend to be thread-safe as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Without thread safety, one thread could write a variable at the same time another is reading it, leading to undefined behavior, such as crashes or security vulnerabilities. When threads are accessing and modifying the same memory simultaneously, we call it a race condition or data race. 

In a thread-safe language, you can access or modify the same memory from multiple threads simultaneously without worrying about data races. This is generally achieved using message passing techniques, mutual exclusion locks (Mutex), and thread synchronization. Thread safety is required for optimal memory and type safety, so generally, memory and type-safe languages tend to be thread-safe as well.
```

Author: i'll take this with some modification since crashes are hard to categorize as undefined behavior since there will be panics in that case

> In a thread-safe language, you can access or modify the same memory from multiple threads simultaneously without worrying about data races. This is generally achieved using message passing techniques, mutual exclusion locks (Mutex), and thread synchronization. Thread safety is required for optimal memory and type safety, so generally, memory and type-safe languages tend to be thread-safe as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a thread-safe language, you can access or modify the same memory from multiple threads simultaneously without worrying about data races. This is generally achieved using message passing techniques, mutual exclusion locks (mutexes), and thread synchronization. Thread safety is required for optimal memory and type safety, so generally, memory and type-safe languages tend to be thread-safe as well.
```
no need to capitalize, changed to plural to match in-sentence usage

> # Why does it matter?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why does it matter?
```

> Ok! Why does this matter, and why should we care about it? Let's take a look at some stats to get an idea first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ok! Why does this matter, and why should we care? Let's take a look at some stats to get an idea first.
```
simpler

> ## Memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Memory safety issues
```

> Memory safety issues are the cause of most security CVEs we encounter. Undefined behavior can be abused by a hacker to take control of the program or to leak privileged information. If you try to access an array element out of its bound in memory-safe languages, you will just crash the program with panic or error, which is predictable behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Memory safety issues are the cause of most security CVEs we encounter. Undefined behavior can be abused by a hacker to take control of the program or to leak privileged information. If you try to access an array element out of its bound in memory-safe languages, you will just crash the program with panic or error, which is predictable behavior.
```
```suggestion
Memory safety issues are the cause of most security CVEs (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) we encounter. Undefined behavior can be abused by a hacker to take control of the program or to leak privileged information. If you try to access an out of bounds array element in a memory-safe language, you will just crash the program with panic or error, which is predictable behavior.
```
spell out acronym once, align singular plural usage, use of "out of bounds" idiom

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why is appearing in duplicate, but the suggested change is as follows: 
Memory safety issues are the cause of most security CVEs (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures) we encounter. Undefined behavior can be abused by a hacker to take control of the program or to leak privileged information. If you try to access an out of bounds array element in a memory-safe language, you will just crash the program with panic or error, which is predictable behavior.

> This is why memory-related bugs in C/C++ systems often result in CVEs and emergency patches. There are also other memory-unsafe behaviors in C/C++, like accessing pointers from stack frames that have been popped, a memory that has been de-allocated, iterator invalidation, and so on. Memory safe languages, even ones that are not the safest, still safeguard against such security issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is why memory-related bugs in C/C++ systems often result in CVEs and emergency patches. There are other memory-unsafe behaviors in C/C++, like accessing pointers from stack frames that have been popped, a memory that has been de-allocated, iterator invalidation, and so on. Memory safe languages, even ones that are not the safest, still protect against such security issues.
```

> If we take a stats, we can see that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we take a look at stats, we can see that:
```

> - About 70% of all [CVEs at Microsoft](https://msrc-blog.microsoft.com/2019/07/18/we-need-a-safer-systems-programming-language/) are memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- About 70% of all [CVEs at Microsoft](https://msrc-blog.microsoft.com/2019/07/18/we-need-a-safer-systems-programming-language/) are memory safety issues.
```
full sentence takes a period even in a bulleted list.

> - Two-thirds of [Linux kernel vulnerabilities](https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/lssna19/d6/kernel-modules-in-rust-lssna2019.pdf) come from memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Two-thirds of [Linux kernel vulnerabilities](https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/lssna19/d6/kernel-modules-in-rust-lssna2019.pdf) come from memory safety issues.
```

> - An [Apple study](https://langui.sh/2019/07/23/apple-memory-safety/) found that 60-70% of vulnerabilities in iOS and macOS are memory safety vulnerabilities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An [Apple study](https://langui.sh/2019/07/23/apple-memory-safety/) found that 60-70% of vulnerabilities in iOS and macOS are memory safety vulnerabilities.
```

> - [Google estimated](https://security.googleblog.com/2019/05/queue-hardening-enhancements.html) that 90% of Android vulnerabilities are memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Google estimated](https://security.googleblog.com/2019/05/queue-hardening-enhancements.html) that 90% of Android vulnerabilities are memory safety issues.
```

> - [70% of all Chrome](https://www.zdnet.com/article/chrome-70-of-all-security-bugs-are-memory-safety-issues/) security bugs are memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [70% of all Chrome](https://www.zdnet.com/article/chrome-70-of-all-security-bugs-are-memory-safety-issues/) security bugs are memory safety issues.
```

> - An [analysis of 0-days](https://twitter.com/LazyFishBarrel/status/1129000965741404160) that were discovered being exploited in the wild found that more than 80% of the exploited - vulnerabilities were memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An [analysis of 0-days](https://twitter.com/LazyFishBarrel/status/1129000965741404160) that were discovered being exploited in the wild found that more than 80% of the exploited - vulnerabilities were memory safety issues.
```

> - Some of the most popular security issues of all time are memory safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Some of the most popular security issues of all time are memory safety issues:
```

  - [Slammer worm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_Slammer), [WannaCry](https://www.abetterinternet.org/docs/memory-safety/out-of-bounds%20write), [Trident exploit](https://blog.lookout.com/trident-pegasus-technical-details), [HeartBleed](https://tonyarcieri.com/would-rust-have-prevented-heartbleed-another-look), [Stagefright](https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/2015/09/stagefrightened.html), [Ghost](https://blog.qualys.com/laws-of-vulnerabilities/2015/01/27/the-ghost-vulnerability)

> That's a huge chunk of CVEs, and of course, there is no suspense that most of it is from C/C++ systems 🤷

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's a huge chunk of CVEs, and of course, it's no surprise that most of it is from C/C++ systems 🤷
```
idiomatic

{% twitter 1501086412296228866 %}

> Imagine a world without memory safety issues. Imagine the amount of developer time saved, amount of money saved, amount of resources saved. Sometimes I wonder why do we still use C/C++. Right! Or more like, Why do we trust Humans, against all available evidence, to handle memory manually. And this is all without taking other non-CVE memory issues like memory leaks, memory efficiency, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine a world without memory safety issues. Imagine the amount of developer time saved, amount of money saved, amount of resources saved. Sometimes I wonder why we still use C/C++. Why do we trust humans, against all available evidence, to handle memory manually? And this is all without taking other non-CVE memory issues like memory leaks, memory efficiency, and so on.
```

> Imagine a world without memory safety issues. Imagine the amount of developer time saved, amount of money saved, amount of resources saved. Sometimes I wonder why we still use C/C++. Why do we trust humans, against all available evidence, to handle memory manually? And this is all without taking other non-CVE memory issues like memory leaks, memory efficiency, and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine a world without memory safety issues. Imagine the amount of developer time saved, amount of money saved, amount of resources saved. Sometimes I wonder why we still use C/C++. Why do we trust humans, against all available evidence, to handle memory manually? And this is without considering other non-CVE memory issues like memory leaks, memory efficiency, and so on.
```
usage/clarity

> ## Thread safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Thread safety issues
```

Though not as notorious as memory safety, thread safety is also a cause of major headaches for developers and can result in security issues.

Thread safety issues can cause two types of vulnerabilities:

> - Information loss caused by a thread overwriting information from another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Information loss caused by one thread overwriting information from another
```

  - Pointer corruption that allows privilege escalation or remote execution
- Integrity loss due to information from multiple threads being interlaced
  - The best-known attack of this type is called a [TOCTOU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_of_check_to_time_of_use) (time of check to time of use) attack, which is a race condition between checking a condition (like a security credential) and using the results.

Both information loss and integrity loss can be exploited and lead to security issues. While thread safety-related exploits are harder and less common than memory safety ones, they are still possible.

> ## Type safety issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Type safety issues
```

While not as critical as memory and thread safety, lack of type safety can also lead to security issues, and type safety is important for ensuring memory safety.

> Low-level exploits are possible in languages that are not type-safe as an attacker can manipulate the data structure and change the data type to gain access to privileged information; though it's pretty rare, it's not unheard of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Low-level exploits are possible in languages that are not type-safe, as an attacker can manipulate the data structure and change the data type to gain access to privileged information. Although this type of exploit is pretty rare, it's not unheard of.
```

> # Why Rust?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why Rust?
```

> Now that we understand how important programming safety is let's see why Rust is one of the safest languages and how it can avoid most of the security issues we normally encounter with languages like C/C++.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we understand how important programming safety is, let's see why Rust is one of the safest languages and how it can avoid most of the security issues we normally encounter with languages like C/C++.
```

> Now that we understand how important programming safety is, let's see why Rust is one of the safest languages and how it can avoid most of the security issues we normally encounter with languages like C/C++.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we understand how important programming safety is, let's see why Rust is one of the safest languages and how it avoids most of the security issues we normally encounter with languages like C/C++.
```
"can" in this context makes it sound like Rust optionally "chooses" to avoid security issues

> For those not familiar, Rust is a high-level multi-paradigm language. It's ideal for functional and imperative programming. It has a very modern and, in my opinion, the best tooling for a programming language. Though it was intended as a systems programming language, its advantages and flexibility have made it suitable for all sorts of use cases as a general-purpose language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those not familiar, Rust is a high-level multi-paradigm language. It's ideal for functional and imperative programming. It has very modern and, in my opinion, the best tooling for a programming language. Though it was originally designed as a systems programming language, its advantages and flexibility have made it suitable for all sorts of use cases as a general-purpose language.
```

> > "Rust throws around some buzz words in its docs, but they are not just marketing buzz; they actually mean it with full sincerity, and they matter a lot."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "Rust throws around some buzzwords in its docs, but they are not just marketing buzz; they actually mean it with full sincerity, and they matter a lot."
```
it's one word

> ## Safety guarantee

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Rust's safety guarantee
```

{% img blog/programming-security-and-why-rust/safety-meme.jpg alt:"memory safety meme" width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

> The safety guarantee is one of the most important aspects of Rust; Rust is memory-safe, null-safe, type-safe, and thread-safe by design. You would have to go out of your way to break those guarantees using the `unsafe` keyword. So even in cases where you would have to write unsafe code, you are making it explicit so that issues can easily be traced down to specific code blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The safety guarantee is one of the most important aspects of Rust; Rust is memory-safe, null-safe, type-safe, and thread-safe by design. If the compiler detects unsafe code, it will refuse to compile that code by default. You would have to go out of your way to break those guarantees using the `unsafe` keyword. So even in cases where you would have to write unsafe code, you are making it explicit so that issues can easily be traced down to specific code blocks.
```

> The safety guarantee is one of the most important aspects of Rust; Rust is memory-safe, null-safe, type-safe, and thread-safe by design. If the compiler detects unsafe code, it will refuse to compile that code by default. You would have to go out of your way to break those guarantees using the `unsafe` keyword. So even in cases where you would have to write unsafe code, you are making it explicit so that issues can easily be traced down to specific code blocks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The safety guarantee is one of the most important aspects of Rust; Rust is memory-safe, null-safe, type-safe, and thread-safe by design. If the compiler detects unsafe code, it will refuse to compile that code by default. You would have to go out of your way to break those guarantees using the `unsafe` keyword. So even in cases where you would have to write unsafe code, you are making it explicit. Issues can easily be traced down to specific code blocks.
```
avoids repetition of "so"

> ### Memory safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Memory safety in Rust
```

> Rust ensures memory safety at compile time using its innovative ownership mechanism and the borrow checker built into the compiler. The compiler just does not allow memory unsafe code unless it's explicitly marked as unsafe in an unsafe block or function. This static compile-time analysis eliminates many types of memory bugs, and with some more runtime checks, Rust guarantees memory safety.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rust ensures memory safety at compile time using its innovative ownership mechanism and the borrow checker built into the compiler. The compiler does not allow memory unsafe code unless it's explicitly marked as unsafe in an unsafe block or function. This static compile-time analysis eliminates many types of memory bugs, and with some additional runtime checks, Rust guarantees memory safety.
```
"just" is almost always a filler word, doesn't add meaning.

> There is no concept of null at the language level. Instead, Rust provides the Option enum, which can be used to mark the presence or absence of a value, making the resulting code null safe and much easier to deal with, and you will never encounter null pointer exceptions in Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no concept of null at the language level. Instead, Rust provides the `Option` [enum](http://web.mit.edu/rust-lang_v1.25/arch/amd64_ubuntu1404/share/doc/rust/html/book/first-edition/enums.html), which can be used to mark the presence or absence of a value, making the resulting code null safe and much easier to deal with, and you will never encounter null pointer exceptions in Rust.
```

> The ownership and borrowing mechanism makes it one of the most memory-efficient languages while avoiding pitfalls with manual memory management and garbage collection. It has memory efficiency and speeds comparable to C/C++ and memory safety better than garbage collected languages like Java and Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ownership and borrowing mechanism make Rust one of the most memory-efficient languages while avoiding pitfalls with manual memory management and garbage collection. It has memory efficiency and speeds comparable to C/C++, and memory safety better than garbage collected languages like Java and Go.
```

> There is no concept of null at the language level. Instead, Rust provides the `Option` [enum](http://web.mit.edu/rust-lang_v1.25/arch/amd64_ubuntu1404/share/doc/rust/html/book/first-edition/enums.html), which can be used to mark the presence or absence of a value, making the resulting code null safe and much easier to deal with, and you will never encounter null pointer exceptions in Rust.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no concept of null at the language level. Instead, Rust provides the `Option` [enum](http://web.mit.edu/rust-lang_v1.25/arch/amd64_ubuntu1404/share/doc/rust/html/book/first-edition/enums.html), which can be used to mark the presence or absence of a value. This makes the resulting code null safe and much easier to deal with, and you will never encounter null pointer exceptions in Rust.
```
breaks up a long run-on sentence

> The ownership and borrowing mechanism make Rust one of the most memory-efficient languages while avoiding pitfalls with manual memory management and garbage collection. It has memory efficiency and speeds comparable to C/C++, and memory safety better than garbage collected languages like Java and Go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ownership and borrowing mechanisms make Rust one of the most memory-efficient languages while avoiding pitfalls with manual memory management and garbage collection. It has memory efficiency and speeds comparable to C/C++, and memory safety that's better than garbage-collected languages like Java and Go.
```
noun/verb alignment

> I wrote detailed articles about [memory management in different languages](https://deepu.tech/memory-management-in-programming/) in my personal blog, so check it out if you are interested in learning more about memory management in Java, Rust, JavaScript, and Go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I've written detailed articles about [memory management in different languages](https://deepu.tech/memory-management-in-programming/) in my personal blog, so check them out if you are interested in learning more about memory management in Java, Rust, JavaScript, and Go.
```
using past perfect tense (have written) indicates that you "wrote" the articles over a period of time, rather than at one particular moment in the past.

> ### Type safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Type safety in Rust
```
to distinguish from the other sub-headers that have the same title. This is to make navigation and scanning easier for the ready, and also optimizes for SEO by adding more description in the headings

> Rust is statically typed, and it guarantees type safety by strict compile-time type checks and by guaranteeing memory safety. This is not special as most modern languages are statically typed. Rust also allows some level of dynamic typing with the `dyn` keyword and Any type when required. But the powerful type inference and the compiler ensure type safety even in those cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust is statically typed, and it guarantees type safety by strict compile-time type checks and by guaranteeing memory safety. This is not special as most modern languages are statically typed. Rust also allows some level of dynamic typing with the `dyn` keyword and `Any` type when required. But the powerful type inference and the compiler ensure type safety even in those cases.
```

> Rust is statically typed, and it guarantees type safety by strict compile-time type checks and by guaranteeing memory safety. This is not special as most modern languages are statically typed. Rust also allows some level of dynamic typing with the `dyn` keyword and `Any` type when required. But the powerful type inference and the compiler ensure type safety even in those cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rust is statically typed, and it guarantees type safety by strict compile-time type checks and by guaranteeing memory safety. This is not special, as most modern languages are statically typed. Rust also allows some level of dynamic typing with the `dyn` keyword and `Any` type when required. But the powerful type inference and the compiler ensure type safety even in those cases.
```

> ### Thread safety

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Thread safety in Rust
```

> Rust guarantees thread safety using similar concepts for memory safety and provides standard library features like channels, Mutex, and ARC. The ownership mechanism makes it impossible to cause accidental data race from a shared state. This makes us confident to focus on code and let the compiler worry about shared data between threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rust guarantees thread safety using similar concepts for memory safety and provides standard library features like channels, Mutex, and ARC. In safe Rust, you can have either one mutable reference to a value or unlimited read-only references to it at any given time. The ownership mechanism makes it impossible to cause accidental data race from a shared state. This makes us confident to focus on code and let the compiler worry about shared data between threads.
```

## What else?

> I wrote about [my impressions of Rust](https://deepu.tech/my-second-impression-of-rust/) in a detailed post on my blog where I explain Rust's excellent features that make it unique. Here is a short summary of the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I wrote about [my impressions of Rust](https://deepu.tech/my-second-impression-of-rust/) in a detailed post on my blog where I explain Rust's excellent features that make it unique. Here is a short summary of those features:
```

> Rust guarantees thread safety using similar concepts for memory safety and provides standard library features like channels, Mutex, and ARC. In safe Rust, you can have either one mutable reference to a value or unlimited read-only references to it at any given time. The ownership mechanism makes it impossible to cause accidental data race from a shared state. This makes us confident to focus on code and let the compiler worry about shared data between threads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rust guarantees thread safety using similar concepts for memory safety and provides standard library features like channels, mutex, and ARC. In safe Rust, you can have either one mutable reference to a value or unlimited read-only references to it at any given time. The ownership mechanism makes it impossible to cause accidental data race from a shared state. This makes us confident to focus on code and let the compiler worry about shared data between threads.
```
I don't see other tech docs capitalizing mutex. Let's leave it lower case. 

What is the acronym ARC stand for here, I can't tell precisely by searching. Can you add what it stands for in parentheses here? Thanks!

Author: i'll. Its Atomic Reference Counting

> ## What else?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What else?
```

- **Zero cost abstractions**: Rust offers true zero-cost abstractions, which means that you can write code in any style with any number of abstractions without paying any performance penalty. Very few languages offer this, which is why Rust is so fast. Rust compiler will always generate the best byte code regardless of the style of code you write. This means you can write functional-style code and get the same performance as its imperative counterpart.

> - **Immutable default**: Rust is immutable by default. Mutations have to be declared explicitly. This, along with the ability to pass by value or reference, makes it super easy to write functional code without side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Immutable default**: Values in Rust are immutable, or read-only, by default. Mutability has to be declared explicitly. This, along with the ability to pass by value or reference, makes it super easy to write functional code without side effects.
```

- **Pattern matching**: Rust has excellent support for advanced pattern matching. Pattern matching is used extensively for error handling and control flows in Rust.

> - **Advanced generics, traits, and types**: Rust has advanced generics and traits with type aliasing and type inference support. Though generics could easily become complex when combined with lifetimes, it's one of the most powerful features of Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Advanced generics, traits, and types**: Rust has advanced [generics](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html) and [traits](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-02-traits.html) with [type aliasing](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/items/type-aliases.html) and [type inference](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/types/inference.html) support. Though generics could easily become complex when combined with lifetimes, it's one of the most powerful features of Rust.
```

> - **Macros**: There is also support for metaprogramming using macros. Rust supports both declarative macros and procedural macros. Macros can be used like annotations, attributes, and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Macros**: There is also support for metaprogramming using [macros](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-06-macros.html). Rust supports both declarative macros and procedural macros. Macros can be used like annotations, attributes, and functions.
```

> - **Great tooling and one of the best compiler**: Rust has one of the best compilers and the best tooling I have seen and experienced (compared to JS world, JVM languages, Go, Python, Ruby, CSharp, PHP, C/C++). It also has excellent documentation, which is shipped with the tooling for offline use. How awesome is that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Great tooling and one of the best compilers**: Rust has one of the best compilers and the best tooling I have seen and experienced (compared to JS world, JVM languages, Go, Python, Ruby, CSharp, PHP, C/C++). It also has excellent documentation, which is shipped with the tooling for offline use. How awesome is that!
```

- **Excellent community and ecosystem**: Rust has one of the most vibrant and friendly communities. The ecosystem is quite young but is one of the fastest-growing.

Usually, a programming language would offer a choice between safety, speed, and high-level abstractions. At the very best, you can pick two of those. For example, with Java/C#/Go, you get safety and high-level abstractions at the cost of runtime overhead, whereas C++ gives you speed and abstractions at the cost of safety. But Rust offers all three and a good developer experience as a bonus. I don't think many other mainstream languages can claim that.

> "Rust, not Firefox, is Mozilla's greatest industry contribution."
>
> – TechRepublic

> This doesn't mean there are no downsides, and Rust is definitely not a silver bullet. There are issues like the steep learning curve and complexity of the language. But it's the closest thing to a silver bullet, in my opinion. That doesn't mean you should just start using Rust for everything. If a use case requires speed and or concurrency or building system tools or CLIs, then Rust is an ideal choice, and personally, I would recommend Rust over C/C++ for any use case unless you are building a tool for a legacy platform that Rust does not support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This doesn't mean there are no downsides, and Rust is definitely not a silver bullet. There are issues like the steep learning curve and complexity of the language. But it's the closest thing to a silver bullet, in my opinion. That doesn't mean you should just start using Rust for everything. If a use case requires speed, concurrency, building system tools, or building CLIs, then Rust is an ideal choice. Personally, I would recommend Rust over C/C++ for any use case unless you are building a tool for a legacy platform that Rust does not support. 
```

> # Learn more about Rust and Security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Learn more about Rust and security
```
no capitalization on security
